# Customer_Analysis
The point of the project is Creating a customer analysis based on the customer data I have. I will be using excel for the pre processing, analysis and visualization.

## Meaning of the variables
The Superstore Sales data provides sales data for a fictional retail company, including information on products, orders and customers.

1. Order ID - A unique identifier for each order.
2. Customer ID - A unique identifier for each customer.
3. Order Date - The date of the order placement.
4. Ship Date - The date the order was shipped.
5. Ship Mode - The shipping mode for the order (e.g. standard, same-day).
6. Segment - The customer segment (e.g. Consumer, Corporate, Home Office).
7. Region - The region where the customer is located (e.g. West, Central, East).
8. Category - The category of the product purchased (e.g. Furniture, Technology, Office Supplies).
9. Sub-Category - The sub-category of the product purchased (e.g. Chairs, Desktops, Paper).
10. Product Name - The name of the product purchased.
11. Sales - The sales revenue for the product purchased.
12. Quantity - The number of units of the product purchased.
13. Discount - The discount applied to the product purchased.
14. Profit -The profit generated by the product purchased.
Sales: This likely represents the total revenue generated from selling a product.
Product Base Margin: This could represent the profit margin for each product before other costs, like shipping, are added. It’s typically calculated as (Sales - Cost) / Sales, giving insight into how much profit is made per unit sale. It might represent the estimated profit margin per product without discounts or extra fees.

## Steps I am to take
1. Clean data (If necessary)
2. Analyze the data
3. Visualize the data

## Hypotheses formulated
1. (Check) Sales of products as per province or state?
2. One of the states has an emerging trend in demand of a certain product.
3. Corporate customers are more likely to purchase higher value items compared to home office customers.
4. Orders marked as high or critical have higher than average sales due to quick delivery which improves customer satisfaction.
5. High discounts on low margin items negatively impact profitability while discounts on high margin products encourage sales without hurting profit.
6. (Check) Order date trends? Is there an actual trend and seasonality?

### Analyzing data
[Download the interactive dashboard](https://1drv.ms/x/c/936e951a3bc5788f/ETuiZHECeddAoJnjGjC4E7sB1pEOjRRv1cdaRB9cMnEe4A?e=oHgKgn)

[See the interractive video preview](https://1drv.ms/v/c/936e951a3bc5788f/ESvnJvNqrUlEscp--fTEXLgBb-YBprnUWbfjbJ141Gcpfg?e=9TCpdr)

